PicoMods 260323 23rd March 2026

I have spotted three issues with the SEMARC MkI PicoRX pcb:

1. 4k7 pull-ups going to +5V instead of +3V,
2. Some 0V areas are not connected to 0V and
3. The op-amps + and - input legs are swapped over.



It is possible to make the necessary modifications without too much difficulty, 
though that does depend a bit on the user's skill and eyesight levels.

Items 1 and 2 are both covered by drawings scanPico-RX_TOP.jpg and scanPicoRX_BOT.jpg.
Essentially TWO tracks need to be cut, one on the top of the pcb and one on the bottom.
I use a scalpel and make a small nick in the track, then I use a multimeter 
in continuity mode to ensure the ends of that track no longer conduct.

It makes sense to wait a bit and leave THREE of the wire links until the op-amp is soldered in,
because Issue 3 involves some work on said op-amp.

Meanwhile MOST of the links may be added at this stage. Links 4, 5 and 7 can be made now.
I use a small (2.5mm) flat screwdriver to scrape away at the green solder resist layers until
nice shiny pink copper is seen. Aim to clean square areas of 2 to 3mm each side.
These can then be tinned: apply soldering iron for perhaps 8 seconds (depending on iron's power
rating) then add a covering/blob of solder to the copper area.

Then join each pair of two areas with some wire. I think I used PVC-insulated wire marked 0.5mm and
I stripped off all the insulation for these 3 links. My photos may make the final result clear.

The last two links, marked 6 and 100R are different in that the green resist does not require removal
and Link 6 is done with 0.5mm insulated wire with the insulation left intact. The 100R link connects
3V to the 4k7 pull-up resistors mentioned in Issue 1. I used a 100 ohm resistor so that I could
be sure my modification worked. An insulated wire link could be used instead similar to Link 6.



Nearly finally, Issue 3 can be dealt with in one of two methods. 

METHOD 1. Because I soldered an 8-pin DIL socket, I could not bend the IC legs 
as someone kindly suggested, so I cut THREE more tracks on the top of the
pcb, as shown in scanPicoRX_top_iss2.jpg, and another track on the bottom 
as per scanPicoRX_bot_iss2.jpg. I then added insulated wire links 8, 9, 10 and 11.

METHOD 2. This could be much easier if the op-amp has not been soldered in.
Bend FOUR of its legs out at an angle of 45 to 90 degrees. The legs can be bent 
once, slowly, with no problems. Drawing scanPicoRXiclegs.jpg should make this
reasonably clear. Note the pins 2 and 3 are on the middle of one side.
Note also that pins 5 and 6 are not in the middle of the other side, but offset.

FOUR lengths of thin insulated wire can be stripped such that about 4mm of insulation is left.
This is important because each pair must crossover such that pcb hole for pin 2 must go to leg 3
and pcb hole pin 3 must connect to leg 2. I would use 'wire-wrapping' grade wire as it is very
thin and one end can be wrapped around a bent IC leg and then soldered on.

Once all four wires are soldered on the bent legs, the IC can then be pushed onto the pcb
such that these wires go into the relevant holes.


FINALLY, once the IC is soldered using either of the above methods, the remaining THREE
links can be soldered onto pin 4 of the IC. One of those three links should be made with
insulated wire but the others can be bare wire. Images IMG_20250323_NNNNNN show the top and bottom
views of my PicoRX with varying zoom and light levels.










